# Z Score Calculator
>This repo is the foundation for a technical interview/project.

Given a data set, calculate a Z-Score. This repo uses the following formula:

**Z=(((X/M)^L) – 1)/LS**

<sub>* This formula assumes L is > 0. You could expand this logic to handle L = 0 with a different forumla. </sub>

## Implementation Details

This is a fully functioning API Gateway + Lambda Function + DynamoDB project.

- The endpoint expects 3 query parameters`agemos`, `sex`, `head_circumference`
- Once the endpoint is hit, it will retrieve the values for M, L and S from the DynamoDB
- L, M, S and the `head_circumference` value will be used to calculate the Z-Score
- The response will look like:

```
Z Score calculation was successful!

 Data retrieved from DB for Z Score: {
    "Sex": {
        "S": "1"
    },
    "L": {
        "N": "1.424084853"
    },
    "M": {
        "N": "48.72064621"
    },
    "S": {
        "N": "0.029242207"
    },
    "P25": {
        "N": "47.75563267"
    },
    "Agemos": {
        "S": "24.5"
    }
} 

Your query params were {
    "agemos": "24.5",
    "sex": "1",
    "head_circumference": "50"
} 

 The Z Score is 0.0007721242974448446
```

This started out as a standard TypeScript repo with a function and tests (like [this](https://github.com/yethon/interview-project) one)...but I pivoted and decided to focus on the logistics of creating a project with AWS tools. I've created lambdas based projects before, but handed them off to a DevOps team and focused exclusively on the logic of the lambda.

Getting an understanding of the "Infrastructure as Code" in the [`CdkZCalcServerlessStack.ts`](./lib/cdk-z_calc-serverless-stack.ts) class made the concept very approachable.

The `cdk watch` command (which hotswaps your lamda function changes as you make them) is amazing.

### What this implementation is missing / should change
1. A fully functioning test suite
2. I'd focus much more on error handling (The pre-generated code that AWS tutorials provide have extensive examples of error messaging logic.)
3. I'd remove anything that reveals implementation details from the response objects
4. I'd create a security policy for the endpoint
5. Decide to use a DB is one option, another option would be to load your CSV Data into an AWS bucket and parse it
6. Creating the DB Schema in this repo so that it's a 100% functioning project

### Extending
- You could iterate on the lambda to calculate other Z Scores.
- You could iterate on the lambda to calculate Z Scores with the alternate formula.
- You could create an additional call type to retrieve a data set from the DB for plotting.

### Part II
>Creating a graphing app for this data.
- You could use a new API call that would return the data, based on gender.
- You'd use that response to plot your ranges.
- You'd need an array of measurements to plot over those ranges.
- You could use the Z Score call to show the Z Score on hover. (Assuming that's something people would want to see)

# Tooling
- This project was created with AWS's [CDK](https://aws.amazon.com/cdk/)
- Marcia Villalba's [videos](https://www.youtube.com/@foobar_codes) can get you started with CDK
- I created DynamoDB table using the [AWS NoSQL Workbench](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/workbench.html), therefore you can't use this project "as is" without creating an identical table
- This project has been successfully deployed this project and can retrieve the data required to execute the Z Score calculation


## Auto generated by CDK 
### Welcome to your CDK TypeScript project

This is a project for CDK development with TypeScript.

The `cdk.json` file tells the CDK Toolkit how to execute your app.

## Useful commands

* `npm run build`   compile typescript to js
* `npm run watch`   watch for changes and compile
* `npm run test`    perform the jest unit tests
* `cdk deploy`      deploy this stack to your default AWS account/region
* `cdk diff`        compare deployed stack with current state
* `cdk synth`       emits the synthesized CloudFormation template
